From the New York Times, I'm Rachel
Abrams and this is the daily.
[Music]
>> President Trump is now calling for an
overhaul to the museums in the United
States. The president accusing the
Smithsonian of making our country look
horrible by focusing on topics like
quote how bad slavery was. In the last
few weeks, the Trump administration has
turned its sights on the Smithsonian,
the latest target in a campaign to
remake cultural institutions in its
image. The White House will be reviewing
material in some of the museums to make
sure that they align with the
president's view of history. Officials
are attempting to change exhibits at the
center of the country's culture wars and
reshape American history at one of the
largest museum complexes in the world.
>> We want the museums to treat our country
fairly. We want the museums to talk
about the history of our country in a
fair manner, not in a woke manner or in
a racist manner.
>> Today, my colleague Robin Pogerbin on
the fight over who gets to tell the
American story and how
[Music]
[Applause]
it's Wednesday, September 3rd.
[Music]
Robin, since taking office, the Trump
administration has been trying to exert
control over some of America's most
important cultural institutions.
And it really feels like we're seeing
that effort crescendo at the
Smithsonian, which you have been paying
a lot of attention to. You are a
reporter who has for a very long time
covered arts and culture in the United
States. Can you tell us what has been
happening?
>> Yeah, so it's been a remarkable few
months that amounts to essentially a
wholesale attack on the arts. I think
what's been happening you can see most
clearly in a recent post from President
Trump himself where he described museums
as the last remaining segment of woke.
And he called the Smithsonian in
particular out of control. And and to go
after an institution as big and
prestigious and as critical to American
culture as the Smithsonian is just a
really dramatic escalation.
>> Why does the attack on the Smithsonian
feel like such an escalation?
>> Well, the Smithsonian has both historic
and symbolic power.
[Music]
It is comprised of 21 museums as well as
libraries, research centers, and the
National Zoo. A lot of those museums are
on the National Mall. It is very much a
tourist destination. It's free and also
it is considered America's attic, a
repository of US culture and history. M
>> it has important pieces of art and and
artifacts from all over the world and
things that are very familiar and iconic
to us like the Star Spangled Banner flag
that originally inspired the national
anthem, the Wright brothers first
airplane, but it also has things like
the original lunch counter from the
civil rights sitins and some of the
signage from Japanese internment camps
in California.
>> So really a wide-ranging collection.
>> Yeah, exactly. And the Smithsonian gets
more than half of its $1 billion annual
budget from the government, 62%.
But that said, this is an independent
institution. It has historically
operated as such. And that means that
artistic decisions are made by museum
directors and curators and not by the
board and not by the government. And it
has been extremely successful as an
institution running itself and doing its
own thing. And that is why this is such
a big deal to have this kind of an
intervention from not only the
government but from the president
himself taking an interest in the
minutia of what these museums show.
All of these efforts to interfere in the
independence of the Smithsonian and sort
of this general takeover of the arts.
Where does that story start exactly?
Actually, I I think the story really
starts with another cultural icon in
Washington, the Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts. It's not part of the
Smithsonian, but it is in the nation's
capital, and it's where President Trump
first focused his attention when he
returned to office in February. He
accused the center of programming that
was too woke. He complained about drag
queens performing there. He said in one
tweet that it was anti-American
propaganda and he went so far as to
eliminate the Biden appointees on the
board to get himself elected as chairman
and to install an interim president of
one of his kind of most loyal
associates. And it was also striking
that the chairman of the Kennedy Center
uh David Rubenstein decided to just kind
of go quietly. there wasn't any real
outrage or protest in reaction to this.
And I think it it kind of wet the
appetite of the Trump administration for
more. They saw the success of this
playbook and therefore turned to another
kind of quintessentially
American institution which was the
Smithsonian.
And what did President Trump do? So in
March, the president issues an executive
order that essentially accuses the
Smithsonian of trying to promote a
divisive race centered ideology
describing what he sees as a revisionist
movement that undermines the United
States and terms of narratives that
portray America and and Western values
in a way that's harmful and oppressive.
Hm. So instead, what he did was
intensified his push to impose his
vision of American history. And that is
one that is more positive, that demands
that the Smithsonian make itself into a
symbol of inspiration and American
greatness rather than focus on the more
negative aspects of our heritage. So
what does that look like exactly? Well,
it starts with Trump publicly calling
for the firing of the National Portrait
Gallery director Kim Sey. The National
Portrait Gallery is perhaps one of the
most important Smithsonian museums
because it contains all of these what
are considered official portraits of
every president and those are are huge
draw for the public and say it made no
secret of her interest in reimagining
the museum and making meaningful
changes. She she told us in 2022 that
for centuries, portraits and busts in
the museum were reserved for capturing
images of the elite and that that had
left a distorted historical record that
was largely limited to quote the
wealthy, the pale, and the male. And it
was actually that very phrase that the
Trump administration picked up on and
calling her quote a highly partisan
person and a strong supporter of DEI,
which is totally inappropriate for her
position. And so how does the portrait
gallery respond to all of this?
>> Well, initially what the Smithsonian
Board of Regents did because that is the
kind of governing body that runs the
Smithsonian was
>> they said that this is not the purview
of the president, it's ours, but we will
take your concerns into consideration
and do our own review.
>> In other words, thank you so much for
your input, but you can't just fire the
head of one of our museums. That's not
your job.
>> That's our job, right? But we will
consider your complaints. We will
evaluate the portrait gallery for bias
along with all of our other museums and
kind of make a good faith effort to
respond to your concerns. Uh that
obviously did not prove sufficient uh
for the Trump administration and also
actually the pressure that was brought
to bear actually became too much and she
left of her own accord within two weeks
of all of this. Wow. So basically, even
though the Smithsonian maybe tried to
seem like it was compromising, the
administration does eventually get what
it wanted, like she resigns under threat
of firing.
>> Yeah. It also spoke to a effort on the
part of the Smithsonian governing board
to walk this line between trying to
satisfy the Trump administration and not
antagonize it
>> while adhere to its own kind of mission
and principles. And the person at the
heart of that and leading that effort is
its secretary, Lonnie Bunch.
>> And who is he? What is his background?
>> Lonnie Bunch is the first black
secretary to serve at the Smithsonian.
He's been in the job for six years. And
he kind of made a name for himself as
the founding director of the National
Museum of African-American History and
Culture, which opened to great fanfare
in 2016 and last year had 1.6 million
visitors. And what Bunch succeeded in
doing is making sure that this was not a
controversial museum as most Smithsonian
museums have not been over time. They
are generally fairly benign and not
provocative historically. And even
though this was a museum that was about
some very difficult topics, Bunch
managed to raise money for it and kind
of enlist both Democrats and Republicans
in supporting it.
>> Right. Basically, his job at all of
these museums is to make them as open
and inviting to the general public as
possible. Is that right?
>> That's right. These should be museums
that appeal to a broad public and
ideally don't alienate any particular
groups and it's a place where all
Americans feel comfortable coming. Mhm.
>> But walking that kind of moderate
centrist line has become more and more
difficult and it really escalated over
the summer where the artist Amy Cherald
was supposed to have a major exhibition
at the National Portrait Gallery.
>> So Amy Cherald is a prominent painter.
She's been widely celebrated and she is
the most famous. She really broke out
with this official portrait of Michelle
Obama. And the artist has a big
retrospective that was just in New York
and was supposed to travel on next to
Washington this fall. But there was one
painting in that exhibition that
apparently started to make some members
of the Smithsonian board nervous.
>> Why is that? Tell me about the painting.
>> Well, the painting depicts a transgender
Statue of Liberty. It It's called
Transforming Liberty. It really shows a
proud black transw woman holding the
torch and it's emblematic of Charlotte's
work which often has political
undertones and raises issues of gender
identity and race. And I think the
Smithsonian board started to worry that
this was exactly the kind of hot button
issue that would set off the Trump
administration and they were not
spoiling for another fight. So they
started to have internal discussions
about perhaps pulling it from the show.
And when Cheryl got wind of this idea,
she was not happy about it and chose to
cancel the entire thing.
>> She basically felt like the museum had
crossed some kind of red line and into
it sounds like censorship basically.
>> Yeah, exactly. And and I think what was
also troubling about this was this was
the Smithsonian deciding to censor
itself even in advance of any complaints
from the Trump administration. Did the
administration react at all to her
pulling out since they hadn't even asked
for it?
>> The administration celebrated this
decision and almost seemed to try to
take credit for it. A White House
official described the work as an effort
to reinterpret one of our nation's most
sacred symbols through a divisive and
ideological lens. So this was exactly
the kind of effort or kind of curtailing
of certain artistic expression that the
Trump administration has been seeking.
You know, it really sounds like the
Smithsonian is really stuck between a
rock and a hard place because they're
trying to maintain some level of
independence without angering the Trump
administration too much. And yet they're
still making all of these concessions.
And so I wonder how far are these
concessions going in actually appeasing
the Trump administration?
>> Well, not far at all. I mean, if
anything, the pressure ramps up. On
August 12th, the administration
announced what essentially amounted to
an audit of exhibitions, both those
currently underway and those planned for
the future. It gave the Smithsonian a
deadline of 120 days to make concrete
changes that it wanted to see. And and
in that time, the Smithsonian had to
replace any language that the White
House deemed divisive or driven by
ideology with descriptions that the
administration found acceptable.
[Music]
So this is a very new challenge to the
Smithsonian's independence and mission
and it really begs the question of how
is Lonnie Bunch and the Smithsonian
Institution going to respond. Hunt.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
Robin, you said that the administration
has really started raising some specific
objections at the Smithsonian. So, can
you give us a few examples of the
exhibits that they actually have taken
issue with? Well, they actually come
back to the Smithsonian with a real list
of some of the exhibitions and content
that they find objectionable. in a
document that's titled President Trump
is Right About the Smithsonian. They
highlight several examples. Among them
is a exhibition that features art
commemorating the act of crossing the
southern border. They call out an
installation of the Pride flag, a
stopotion drawing animation examining
the career of Anthony Fouchy. But what
they really focus on is the issue of
slavery and feeling that the Smithsonian
overemphasizes
slavery in its exhibitions. They cite,
for example, an installation at the
American History Museum on Benjamin
Franklin that looks at his achievements
around electricity, but also talks about
the fact that the people who enabled
those experiments were enslaved people
in his household. And this is reflected
in the post that that Trump put up
recently where he said that he
considered the Smithsonian out of
control where everything discussed quote
is how horrible our country is, how bad
slavery was. And a lot of what the Trump
administration is essentially reacting
to is a kind of wholesale racial
reckoning that took place in the wake of
the George Floyd murder and has been
underway at institutions around the
country since 2020.
>> How did that reckoning play out
specifically in the museum world and the
art world? Well, I think that it was a
real kind of moment of truth for these
institutions where they started to take
a hard look at themselves and whether or
not they accurately reflected the sort
of diversity and range in our country.
And that had to do with everything from
what was on their walls, what they
showed to the kind of artwork they
acquired to the leadership who sat in
the boardrooms and the directors of
these museums. The Baltimore Museum of
Art, for example, pledged to acquire
only work by female artists for a year.
The Met also acknowledged that it had
neglected the Harlem Renaissance. And
there were many people, you know, in the
art world and in the broader culture who
felt that this was a revision that was
overdue.
>> But there was also a camp that felt that
it amounted to an overcorrection that
perhaps it had gone too far and that
when you're dealing with someone like
Ben Franklin, shouldn't we perhaps be
focusing on his scientific contributions
and not so much his flaws or his history
of owning slaves? Obviously though,
figuring out how to portray a
complicated history is not a new idea
for museums and certainly not a new idea
for the Smithsonian. And I think a lot
of people understand that the work of
historians and curators is in part,
maybe large part figuring out how to
portray and revisit and reimagine
perhaps ugly parts of our history.
Right? This is definitely not the first
time the Smithsonian has been at the
center of a debate about how history is
told.
[Music]
One famous example is from the 1990s.
The Air and Space Museum planned an
exhibition around the bomber plane
called the Anol Gay which dropped the
first atomic bomb on Hiroshima. And
originally it included details about
Japanese victims and it talked about it
as a mixed moral legacy and and there
was a real outcry from veterans groups
and members of Congress who felt that
the thrust of the exhibit had become too
negative. And in response to that, there
were actually adjustments made to kind
of moderate the the telling of that
episode so that it it didn't necessarily
dwell on some of the uglier aspects of
the bomb.
So there is a long history of debating
how history gets told, but this is an
unusual instance of the presidential
administration
imposing its will on how that story gets
told.
Which brings us to what is happening
right now with the Smithsonian and the
pressure for the Smithsonian to change
what it actually displays in its museums
against what some people would say is
its very mission, which is to be
independent. So, where do things stand
with the administration's demands? Well,
the response from the Smithsonian really
lies with its governing board, which is
called the Board of Regents. It has 17
members that include members of
Congress, both Democrats and
Republicans, as well as civilians.
Interestingly, it also includes the vice
president, J. D. Vance, and it is
overseen and run by John Roberts, the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. And
Chief Justice Roberts famously is an
institutionalist who is looking to avoid
controversy, to focus on procedure and
rules, and not to enter partisan
debates.
>> Mhm.
>> So, we're waiting. It's been several
weeks. We know Bunch had lunch with the
president last week, but we don't know
exactly what happened there except that
the meeting was described as cordial,
but there is still no official response
from the Smithsonian to the White
House's list of demands. And it's a big
moment for Bunch and the Smithsonian.
Will they take a stand and enforce the
independence of the Smithsonian or not?
What would it look like for Lonnie Bunch
to take a stand? And what would it look
like if that stand didn't work?
>> Well, I think if Lonnie Bunch says,
"This is our purview and not yours,"
then the Trump administration is likely
to not be satisfied with that because
basically the Smithsonian would be
refusing to abide by this mandate. Right
now, Trump doesn't have the votes on the
board to dominate decisionm, but that
could change in a short amount of time.
in a few months. Several members are due
to cycle off and members do need to be
approved by Congress and Trump could
have a lot more influence in appointing
those who succeed them and then he would
have control of the board going forward
and and that's largely what is expected
to happen. This is really reminding me
of this old adage about how history gets
written by the victors, right? like by
the people in charge and Trump is the
one in charge and he's trying to as you
said impose his version of history on
the institutions that help define it for
the broad American public. We're
obviously in a moment of backlash
against what some people see as an
overcorrection in 2020. And so I wonder
is what we're seeing now just another
swing of the cultural pendulum that
could of course swing back with a new
administration or is what we're seeing
more enduring.
I do think that this is a moment where
larger questions are on the table and
we're not sure of the answers and you
know historically art institutions and
artists have been kind of the watchd
dogss of our nation to some extent and
and the victors in culture wars that
free expression has carried the day and
and this is a case where you actually
see an administration and a political
point of view kind of shutting that
down. And I think there is some concern
that that could have lasting chilling
effects. It's certainly one we're
already seeing in institutions across
the country besides the Smithsonian, a
sort of anticipation of of needing to be
silenced. And I had lunch today with a
European museum director who said that
he saw this as a frightening pattern in
terms of having seen this happen in
other countries under authoritarian
regimes where propaganda infects almost
everything. And there is worry about
what this moment means for scholarly
independence and artistic expression. A
lot of museum leaders feel this is a
moment to take a firm stand in favor of
open debate and critical thinking and
freedom of expression which are
foundational values of American cultural
institutions. At the same time, they
also want to protect their organizations
from landing in the crosshairs of the
Trump administration right now, which
could threaten them in a more long-term
way. And I think they're also seeing
that outrage doesn't have a whole lot of
effect. So the result is places just
keeping their heads down.
>> Robin, if the president was in fact able
to gain control of America's attic, as
you put it earlier, I wonder what you
think that means just in terms of
curating the story of America and
presenting it to the public. I think
what it means is that he would have
remade these institutions in his own
image as kind of an extenuation of his
values, his world view and his
priorities. I think it will also be a
simplified version of America, a story
with kind of less nuance and complexity.
And interestingly, in Lonnie Bunch's
memoir, he recalls during the first
Trump administration walking the
president through the National Museum of
African-American History and Culture
when it had just opened and that the
president didn't want to see anything
too difficult. And Bunch writes that
actually it's really important to look
at history's fullness and complexity,
even though that can be hard to do.
All of this is coming to a head as the
president has talked a lot about the
upcoming 250th anniversary of the
signing of the Declaration of
Independence next summer.
I think the president has made clear he
would like that to be largely
celebratory
and it really raises questions about
what kind of of a country we're going to
be commemorating on an anniversary like
that.
Is it one where we are just sort of
applauding progress as triumphant?
Or are we looking more frankly and
squarely at progress in all its
complexity as being both our successes
and our failures?
That mix is also very much a part of who
we are and what there is to celebrate.
[Music]
Robin, thank you so much.
>> Thank you for having me.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
Here's
what else you need to know today. Google
avoided the harshest penalties in a
landmark antitrust case when a federal
judge ruled on Tuesday that while Google
needed to hand over some of its search
data to rivals, it did not have to give
in to the government's toughest demands,
including spinning off its Chrome
browser.
The ruling is a blow to the government's
push in recent years to challenge the
dominance of the biggest tech companies
including Google, Apple, Amazon, and
Meta, which both the Biden and Trump
administrations have accused of
anti-competitive behavior.
And in a stunning departure from the
traditional tactics of America's war on
drugs, President Trump said on Tuesday
that the military had carried out a
strike against a boat run by a
Venezuelan quote narco terrorist
organization.
The move comes as the Trump
administration has stepped up its
belligerent rhetoric about fighting drug
cartels and has labeled Venezuela's
President Nicolas Maduro as a terrorist
cartel leader.
[Music]
Today's episode was produced by Sydney
Harper, Olivia Nat, and Claire Tennis
Getter. It was edited by Patricia
Willins and was engineered by Chris
Wood.
[Music]
That's it for the daily. I'm Rachel
Abrams. See you tomorrow.
[Music]